csi: make use of create-external-cluster-resources.py upstream (#9952)
rook/rook: Documentation/ceph-cluster-crd.md

[^1]: Configure an object store, shared filesystem, or NFS resources in the local cluster to connect to the external Ceph cluster

> 

Reviewer: How about adding these definitions?
```
Let's define a couple of terms to discuss external cluster configuration:
- "Source cluster": The cluster providing the data, usually configured by [cephadm](https://docs.ceph.com/en/pacific/cephadm/#cephadm)
- "Consumer cluster": The K8s cluster that will be consuming the external source cluster
```

> ### Steps for creating external rook-ceph cluster

Reviewer: How about removing this header and make the subheaders into level-3?

> #### Run commands on a standalone [ceph cluster](https://docs.ceph.com/en/pacific/cephadm/#cephadm):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Commands on the source Ceph cluster
```

In order to configure an external Ceph cluster with Rook, we need to inject some information in order to connect to that cluster.

1. Run the python script [create-external-cluster-resources.py](/deploy/examples/create-external-cluster-resources.py) for creating all users and keys.

```console
python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --namespace <namespace> --format bash
```

rbd-data-pool-name should be created, and if you need to have CephFS secret details you have to pass filesystem name, and if you need to create rgw_admin_ops_user you need to pass rgw_endpoint (Rados GateWay endpoint (in <IP>:<PORT> format)) , and if you need to export rgw-pool-prefix prepare rgw pools
example: 
```console

> python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --cephfs-filesystem-name <filesystem-name> --rgw-endpoint  <rgw-endpoint> --namespace <namespace> --rgw-pool-prefix <rgw-pool-prefix> --format bash

Reviewer: Let's replace the example command on line 1331 with this command that has all the options. Then we can have some bullets after it that explains each parameters, with required params first, then optional params. Something like this:

```console
python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --cephfs-filesystem-name <filesystem-name> --rgw-endpoint  <rgw-endpoint> --namespace <namespace> --rgw-pool-prefix <rgw-pool-prefix> --format bash
```

- `--namespace`: (Which namespace is this???)
- `--format bash`: The format of the output
- `--rbd-data-pool-name`:  (optional) The name of an rbd pool to create
- `--cephfs-filesystem-name`: (optional) The name of the filesystem 
- `--rgw-endpoint`: (optional) The RADOS Gateway endpoint in the format `<IP>:<PORT>`
- `--rgw-pool-prefix`: (optional) The prefix of the RGW pools, for example `default` (what is a common default for this???)

```

>Note: Use format bash, as to keep up with the further steps, and rbd-data-pool and cephfs-filesystem, should be created in advance.

2. After that you need to copy the bash output.

> #### Run commands on machine that has access to your Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Commands on the K8s consumer cluster
```

> 1. Deploy Rook-Ceph, create [common.yaml](/deploy/examples/common.yaml), [crds.yaml](/deploy/examples/crds.yaml) and [operator.yaml](/deploy/examples/operator.yaml) manifests.

Reviewer: We just need common-external.yaml, right? Not common.yaml?
```suggestion
1. Deploy Rook-Ceph, create [common-external.yaml](/deploy/examples/common-external.yaml), [crds.yaml](/deploy/examples/crds.yaml) and [operator.yaml](/deploy/examples/operator.yaml) manifests.
```

Reviewer: Can we deploy without common.yaml? Or is that a follow-up PR?

Author: Need to do some check-in live cluster, yaa can re-factor in the follow-up PR.

> 2. Just paste the above output from `create-external-cluster-resources.py` into your current shell, it will export all the data.

Reviewer: This is importing, right?
```suggestion
2. Paste the above output from `create-external-cluster-resources.py` into your current shell to allow importing the source data.
```

3. Run the [import](/deploy/examples/import-external-cluster.sh) script.
```console
. import-external-cluster.sh
```

> 4. Create [common-external.yaml](/deploy/examples/common-external.yaml) and [cluster-external.yaml](/deploy/examples/cluster-external.yaml)

Reviewer: Oh, do we need both common.yaml and common-external.yaml? I thought we only needed one of them.

Reviewer: Right, we would need both if you have both external and local clusters, but the common scenario that we should document is when there is only an external cluster config. Do we not need common.yaml in that case?

Author: I need to test, 
But according to https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/55a8fb9b8e1e89767ee70a0e16ae2fbc12c71ba2/deploy/examples/common-external.yaml#L2, 
This I can say is `common.yaml`  is needed and `common-external.yaml` is only needed in case of multi-tenant, but if we not use `rook-ceph as the namespace`

Reviewer: In a follow-up issue I'd like to clean this up so we only need to start the operator in the rook-ceph-external namespace and not create all the RBAC in common.yaml

Author: okay

5. External-cluster will be connected to standalone ceph cluster, verify using:
```console
kubectl -n rook-ceph-external  get CephCluster
```
>```
>NAME                 DATADIRHOSTPATH   MONCOUNT   AGE    STATE       HEALTH
>rook-ceph-external   /var/lib/rook                162m   Connected   HEALTH_OK
>```

>Note: 
>1) If there is already a cluster managed by Rook in 'rook-ceph' then create [cluster-external-management.yaml](/deploy/examples/cluster-external-management.yaml)
>

> >2) If you plan to create CRs (pool, rgw, mds, nfs) in the external cluster, you **MUST** inject the client.admin keyring as well as injecting `cluster-external-management.yaml`

Author: @leseb I am not just sure about this point.

Reviewer: How about if we say that these CRs cannot be created since the consumer cluster only has minimal privileges? It seems best to focus the docs on the minimal privileges scenario and not give them a reason to do more configuration that may not be supported.

>

> >3) If the admin key is to be used by the external cluster, set the following variable:

Author: Should we keep this point??

Reviewer: I vote to remove discussion of the admin key.

Reviewer 2: +1

[^1]: Configure an object store, shared filesystem, or NFS resources in the local cluster to connect to the external Ceph cluster

### External Cluster configuration

- Source cluster: The cluster providing the data, usually configured by [cephadm](https://docs.ceph.com/en/pacific/cephadm/#cephadm)

- Consumer cluster: The K8s cluster that will be consuming the external source cluster

### Commands on the source Ceph cluster

In order to configure an external Ceph cluster with Rook, we need to extract some information in order to connect to that cluster.

1. Run the python script [create-external-cluster-resources.py](/deploy/examples/create-external-cluster-resources.py) for creating all users and keys.

```console
python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --cephfs-filesystem-name <filesystem-name> --rgw-endpoint  <rgw-endpoint> --namespace <namespace> --rgw-pool-prefix <rgw-pool-prefix> --format bash
```

- `--namespace`: Namespace where CephCluster will run in the consumer cluster, for example `rook-ceph-external`
- `--format bash`: The format of the output

> - `--rbd-data-pool-name`: The of the RBD datapool

Reviewer: Is this optional?
```suggestion
- `--rbd-data-pool-name`: (optional) The name of the RBD data pool
```

Author: It is not optional

- `--cephfs-filesystem-name`: (optional) The name of the filesystem
- `--rgw-endpoint`: (optional) The RADOS Gateway endpoint in the format `<IP>:<PORT>`
- `--rgw-pool-prefix`: (optional) The prefix of the RGW pools. If not specified, the default prefix is `default`.

2. Copy the bash output.

Example Output:
```console
export ROOK_EXTERNAL_FSID=797f411a-aafe-11ec-a254-fa163e1539f5
export ROOK_EXTERNAL_USERNAME=client.healthchecker
export ROOK_EXTERNAL_CEPH_MON_DATA=ceph-rados-upstream-w4pdvq-node1-installer=10.0.210.83:6789
export ROOK_EXTERNAL_USER_SECRET=AQAdm0FilZDSJxAAMucfuu/j0ZYYP4Bia8Us+w==
export ROOK_EXTERNAL_DASHBOARD_LINK=https://10.0.210.83:8443/
export CSI_RBD_NODE_SECRET=AQC1iDxip45JDRAAVahaBhKz1z0WW98+ACLqMQ==
export CSI_RBD_PROVISIONER_SECRET=AQC1iDxiMM+LLhAA0PucjNZI8sG9Eh+pcvnWhQ==
export MONITORING_ENDPOINT=10.0.210.83
export MONITORING_ENDPOINT_PORT=9283

> export RBD_POOL_NAME=abc

Reviewer: Let's use the same example that is in the storage class below.
```suggestion
export RBD_POOL_NAME=replicated_2g
```

export RGW_POOL_PREFIX=default
```

### Commands on the K8s consumer cluster

1. Deploy Rook-Ceph, create [common.yaml](/deploy/examples/common.yaml), [crds.yaml](/deploy/examples/crds.yaml) and [operator.yaml](/deploy/examples/operator.yaml) manifests.

2. Paste the above output from `create-external-cluster-resources.py` into your current shell to allow importing the source data.

3. Run the [import](/deploy/examples/import-external-cluster.sh) script.
```console
. import-external-cluster.sh
```

4. Create [common-external.yaml](/deploy/examples/common-external.yaml) and [cluster-external.yaml](/deploy/examples/cluster-external.yaml)

> 5. External-cluster will be connected to standalone ceph cluster, verify using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Verify the consumer cluster is connected to the source ceph cluster:
```

```console
kubectl -n rook-ceph-external  get CephCluster
```
>```
>NAME                 DATADIRHOSTPATH   MONCOUNT   AGE    STATE       HEALTH
>rook-ceph-external   /var/lib/rook                162m   Connected   HEALTH_OK
>```

### Create StorageClass

> Before you create a StorageClass with this cluster you will need to create a Pool in your external Ceph Cluster.

Reviewer: The pool was already created and exported from the source cluster, right? 
```suggestion
Create a StorageClass based on the pool that was already created in the source Ceph cluster.
In this example, the pool `replicated_2g` exists in the source cluster.
```

[^1]: Configure an object store, shared filesystem, or NFS resources in the local cluster to connect to the external Ceph cluster

### External Cluster configuration:

- Source cluster: The cluster providing the data, usually configured by [cephadm](https://docs.ceph.com/en/pacific/cephadm/#cephadm)

- Consumer cluster: The K8s cluster that will be consuming the external source cluster

### Commands on the source Ceph cluster:

> In order to configure an external Ceph cluster with Rook, we need to inject some information in order to connect to that cluster.

Author: yup

export CSI_RBD_NODE_SECRET=AQC1iDxip45JDRAAVahaBhKz1z0WW98+ACLqMQ==
export CSI_RBD_PROVISIONER_SECRET=AQC1iDxiMM+LLhAA0PucjNZI8sG9Eh+pcvnWhQ==
export MONITORING_ENDPOINT=10.0.210.83
export MONITORING_ENDPOINT_PORT=9283
export RBD_POOL_NAME=abc
export RGW_POOL_PREFIX=default
```

### Commands on the K8s consumer cluster:

1. Deploy Rook-Ceph, create [common.yaml](/deploy/examples/common.yaml), [crds.yaml](/deploy/examples/crds.yaml) and [operator.yaml](/deploy/examples/operator.yaml) manifests.

2. Paste the above output from `create-external-cluster-resources.py` into your current shell to allow importing the source data.

3. Run the [import](/deploy/examples/import-external-cluster.sh) script.
```console
. import-external-cluster.sh
```

4. Create [common-external.yaml](/deploy/examples/common-external.yaml) and [cluster-external.yaml](/deploy/examples/cluster-external.yaml)

5. External-cluster will be connected to standalone ceph cluster, verify using:
```console
kubectl -n rook-ceph-external  get CephCluster
```
>```
>NAME                 DATADIRHOSTPATH   MONCOUNT   AGE    STATE       HEALTH
>rook-ceph-external   /var/lib/rook                162m   Connected   HEALTH_OK
>```

> >Note: If there is already a cluster managed by Rook in 'rook-ceph' then create [cluster-external-management.yaml](/deploy/examples/cluster-external-management.yaml)

Reviewer: Seems like it's already covered above, so we can remove this line?

> ### Create StorageClass with this External-Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a StorageClass
```

Before you create a StorageClass with this cluster you will need to create a Pool in your external Ceph Cluster.

> ### Example StorageClass based on external Ceph Pool

Reviewer: Seems like we can remove this header, it's already covered.
```suggestion
```

[^1]: Configure an object store, shared filesystem, or NFS resources in the local cluster to connect to the external Ceph cluster

### External Cluster configuration

- Source cluster: The cluster providing the data, usually configured by [cephadm](https://docs.ceph.com/en/pacific/cephadm/#cephadm)

- Consumer cluster: The K8s cluster that will be consuming the external source cluster

### Commands on the source Ceph cluster

In order to configure an external Ceph cluster with Rook, we need to extract some information in order to connect to that cluster.

1. Run the python script [create-external-cluster-resources.py](/deploy/examples/create-external-cluster-resources.py) for creating all users and keys.

```console
python3 create-external-cluster-resources.py --rbd-data-pool-name <pool_name> --cephfs-filesystem-name <filesystem-name> --rgw-endpoint  <rgw-endpoint> --namespace <namespace> --rgw-pool-prefix <rgw-pool-prefix> --format bash
```

- `--namespace`: Namespace where CephCluster will run in the consumer cluster, for example `rook-ceph-external`
- `--format bash`: The format of the output

> - `--rbd-data-pool-name`: The name of the RBD data pool

Author: Yes, it's required to run the python script,
It is just because of how it is designed,https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/62a31f1d0bbfacd5f5356452077121b17c1303f4/deploy/examples/create-external-cluster-resources.py#L285

I don't think any specific reason for keeping it compulsory,
Maybe @aruniiird or @leseb might have an idea why we keep it mandatory.

> - `--rbd-data-pool-name`: The name of the RBD data pool

Reviewer: We probably just expect the common scenario will use an rbd pool. That's fine if it's currently mandatory, just wanted to clarify for the doc. If it's made optional, that can be a future PR.
